>> Brian Holt: One thing you might
wonder is how are these different?
They look really similar, don't they?
They are intact, I have heard one of the
React Core developers say that they regret
making useCallback,
and they wish they would have just
done everything with useMemo.
The reason why they, so
let's make two versions of this.
>> Brian Holt: If I made this useMemo,
it would just look like this.
>> Brian Holt: These two lines,
line 20 and line 21, are the same thing.
>> Brian Holt: Thought that this looked
weird cuz objectively it does It's
a function that returns a function.
Literally, if you look in the code base,
use callback is implemented as this.
>> Brian Holt: And I think this
just makes this easier to read, so
that's why it is there.
I guess I do have a little section
here that just, let's me rant for
a little bit, so
we should do that cuz I like that part.
So we fixed it, we did it useMemo
versus you called back this
is exactly what I just showed you there,
so useMemo is just or
use callback is implemented using useMemo.
What about strings and numbers?
So dont need to use memo on those because,
I'll just bring this up again,
x is triple equaled to x, right?
Those are measured by value, not by
pointer, for anyone that, I don't know,
spent too much time in a CS class,
so you don't useMemo on those.
Those you can just pass in for
numbers, and for maybe not floats,
you might have some issues with floats,
who knows?
I guess that's kinda the point,
but strings,
you'll have no problem with that
It's just objects and functions.
Use these tools sparingly
don't go hog wild with them,
because what's problematic with this
is now that we have memo on here,
sometimes we might expect it to re render,
and it doesn't.
And you're like,
why is this not re rendering right?
And you get these weird bugs where you
start putting state and moving it around,
and you don't realize that one of
the components that at the upper level was
memo, and therefore it's not
rendering anything on bug.
Beneath it again, stuff like that, right?
You end up with this weird class of bugs
that you wouldn't otherwise have that's
why I'm saying use these really sparingly
because generally reactors fast enough.
>> Learners: What if you had complex JSON
structure that your system was polling for
and you're passing it down to
render a tree of components,
and most of the time nothing changes.
Sometimes something does, and
you want things to react.
Could you use memo and use,
a key of the stringified JSON?
When the string KSON changes,
then the block of JSON just passed down?
>> Brian Holt: The only concern I
would have about that is, in theory,
something that you JSON.stringify
should always render out the same way.
I don't think it's actually
required behavior of the spec.
But I think functionally most browsers
observe it would be a concern, right?
That something might not happen that way,
that it's not deterministic.
Functionally, that idea kinda works for
me, but
I would just try and be precise
with where I would use the memo.
Rather than just saying, I'm just
gonna memorize this whole damn tree,
I would say, I'm worried about these
components therefore I will memorize just
these ones that would be my disposition.
And actually, React Compiler is
really gonna save you here so
this is what I was just
about to talk about.
I have an intro lesson on React Compiler,
so if you haven't taken intro,
just go check out even
just this part of it.
React Compiler actually does is it goes
and find it, runs your code, and so,
I don't think this can ever change,
therefore I will memorize it for you.
I guess yours will would change, right?
So maybe this compiler won't save you
here, but it'll save a bunch of us here
that like what all React compiler does
is it goes through as it sees a bunch of
functions that can't or a bunch of
components that will never change.
And then it'll memoize them It'll
basically memoize them for you.
I love that when tools can do this for you
because then if I update my code where it
could change, React Compiler will no
longer do that for me, which is cool.
>> Learners: Do you put that in
a Git hook or a pipeline, or
where would you run the React Compiler?
>> Brian Holt: It's a Babel plugin.
>> Learners: Okay, I got you [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
so it's at build time.
But yeah, for yours, I would just
be precise about which things.
Again, rerendering for the sake of
rerendering is generally not a problem,
so i will just attack that will
actually become a problem.
[INAUDIBLE] actually dodge that
question that you're asking.
>> Learners: It's a good point, they are
branches in that that could be memorized
separately from the entire structure.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I mean the whole thing never changes, yet
the parent component changes a lot.
Cuz that would be the only time that
you'd run into an issue here, right?
That you have a clock
component at the parent level,
cuz if the parent never re-renders,
then it doesn't matter, right?
Cuz it's never gonna re-render anyway,
right?
So it only matters when the parent
re-renders a lot too, yeah.
Cool, don't just use memo all
the time have I said this enough?
Should I say it again?
Don't just use memo all the time,
please okay,
that's I have written it
in there like four times.
Can you tell that this has
been a problem for me?
And then give React Compiler
a shot It is unstable, and
I've actually heard of some people
actually now having problems with it.
Since last time I taught this course,
so be judicious with it,
but that's what it will run memo for
you on places that it
observes that it can't rerender,
okay yeah, question.
>> Learners: Have you used React Scan?
>> Brian Holt: React Scan that's
not even a familiar term to me so,
no, I have not used it.
>> Learners: It's a plug in or whatever
to debug React performance issues.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, yeah, I mean, do I
have it on here installed at the moment?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
the profiler will do some of this thing
as well can I just use it on here?
>> Brian Holt: Profiler, and then I
click record, and I refresh the page.
>> Brian Holt: Maybe,
>> Brian Holt: And stop,
okay so this has a flame route and a bunch
of other stuff, and I can't remember off
the top my head, there's a way to do this
and so you it does it on boot up as well.
>> Brian Holt: Theme,
Auto, Compact, anyway yeah,
you can highlight stuff that rerenders.
Pretty cool stuff, so
definitely worth checking out
this is There's some built in
stuff to the official React
tools that'll help you
with those kind of things.
And you can see here it does tell you that
it's memoized as well, which I thought was
pretty cool so you can identify hopefully
at a glance things that are broken.
It'll also have little magic sparks
if it was done by React Compilers,
that it was done automatically for you.
This will solve almost all of
your React performance problems,
if React has gotten slow for you in some
place, and then these don't solve it for
you, probably just have to
get out of using a framework.
Cuz you're in something too so sensitive
that any sort of overhead will cause
problems good example that would be like
3D graphics or something like that, right?
Or WebAssembly,
you'll start leaning on things like that.
>> Brian Holt: Which is to say
that never problems that I faced